                       PIC Programmer Test Firmware
                              17 March 2019

This document describes the PPTST firmware.  It runs on a Microchip PIC
16F876 on a ReadyBoard-01 with additional circuitry added according to the
PPTST schematic in the PICPRG schematics directory.  The purpose of the
PPTST unit is to test PIC programmers as part of the production process.


Test procedure

  To test a PIC programmer follow these steps:

  1 - Make sure the tester is powered up.

  2 - Make sure the programmer to test is powered up.

  3 - All 8 LEDs on the tester should be in the low position.

  4 - Connect the programmer output to the 6 pin header on the tester.

  5 - Connect the programmer serial command port to the tester serial
      port.

  6 - Testing begins automatically when the tester detects the programmer
      responding to commands.  Each individual test has its own ID, which
      is diplayed on the tester LEDs during that test.  Since each test
      only lasts a few 10s of milliseconds typically, the LEDs on the
      tester will appear to count as each of the tests are performed in
      turn.

      If a test fails, the test process is aborted and the ID of the
      failed test is displayed on the LEDs.  The failure status is held
      until the communication link to the programmer is broken, after
      which the display reverts to all LEDs low to indicate ready for the
      next test.

      If all tests pass, then all LEDs will display in the high position.
      No test has this code, so all LEDs high always indicates a passed
      unit.  The pass display is held until the communication link with
      the programmer is broken, after which the display reverts to all
      LEDs low to indicate ready for the next test.

      The entire suite of tests takes less than 2 seconds.

  7 - Disconnect the programmer from the tester.  The tester display will
      show all LEDs down to indicate ready for the next test.

  8 - To test more programmers, repeat from step 3.


Calibration

  The unit must be calibrated after new firmware is programmed into the
  controller or any electrical changes are made.

  Calibration is performed by installing the "PPTST CAL" plug onto the 6
  pin header.  This connects the Vpp, Vdd, PGD, and PGC signals to known 5
  volts.  The values read from this known input are used to adjust the
  gain factor of each A/D channel.  The connection to the serial port is
  irrelevant during calibration.

  Calibration is performed if the RB7 pushbutton is pressed on powerup or
  reset.  Make sure the calibration plug is installed on the 6 pin header,
  then hold the RB7 pushubutton down during powerup or while briefly
  pressing the "Reset" pushbutton.  During calibration the display will be
  all LEDs up except the right most one.

  Once calibration has been performed, remove the "PPTST CAL" plug.  The
  tester is now ready to use normally.


Firmware versions

  PPTST 1, 24 Feb 2008

    First version.  This is the version sent to Data Technik for testing
    USBProgs 200-299.  Parameters only set for USBProg.  EasyProg and
    ProProg have been implemented, but the test parameters are currently
    just copied from the USBProg.  Not intended for testing EasyProg or
    ProProg.

  PPTST 2, 17 Apr 2008

    Now sets the target programmer name to "Passed" when all tests pass.

  PPTST 3, 18 Apr 2008

    Only sets the target name to "Passed" when the tests pass if the name
    was the one a newly programmed unit has.  If the name is not as
    originally programmed, then the unit is assumed to have already been
    assigned a serial number and the name is not altered to avoid loosing
    the serial number.  The special name "Passed" is only for use with the
    production test program anyway, and that program assumes a virgin
    board and programs all PICs before running the tests.

  PPTST 4, 10 Aug 2008

    Added support for LProg PIC programmer.  This programmer has fixed Vdd
    and Vpp, and communicates over the serial link using 19.2 kBaud
    instead of the normal 115.2 kBaud.  This version is fixed at 19.2
    kBaud and is therefore only usable with the LProg.

  PPTST 5 seq 1, 17 Mar 2019

    The source code was moved into its own subdirectory, which was set up
    as a GIT repository.  No functional changes to the source code.  The
    only changes were to support the different build script conventions.

  PPTST 6 seq 6, 17 Mar 2019

    Changed baud rate from 19.2 kBaud to 115.2 kBaud.  The baud rate is
    actually 113.36 kBaud, which is 1.4% low.  That is still close enough
    to communicate with a USBProg reliably.
